Artificial intelligence is coming foryour job. AI is going to replace you. Injust a few years, we'll all be out ofwork. Are you tired of hearing this?Well, join the club. AI is the buzzwordof thedecade, but it's also being pegged asthe killer of alljobs. Well, here's another such warning,and this time it's from someone who isbuilding an AI future.Anthropic CEO DarioAmui. In a recent interview, he did notsugarcoat it. He said up to half of allentrylevel white collar jobs coulddisappear. AI could wipe out 50% ofthesejobs. If that happens, unemploymentcould shoot up to 20%, which is a levelnot seen since the Great Depression.It's a chillingprediction, and Amod knows it. But hesays it's time for governments and AIcompanies to stop pretendingotherwise. Now you might wonder what isthe point? What's the point of studyingfor years then climbing the corporateladder only to be replaced by a bot? Iget it. It sounds bleak. It feels likethe future is closing in before we'veeven found ourfooting. But here's the real question.How much of this is actuallyhappening? AI was supposed to take allour jobs. How many has it taken untilnow? Tonight we have some numbers.Globally, 14%workers have been affected by AI. Theywere either displaced or they changedtheir careers because of AI. Now 14% isa very big number. It comes to around375 millionworkers. All of them of course did notlose their jobs. But how many did? Thereis no combined estimate yet, but itcould be somewhere between four to fivemillion jobs. In the United States, 1.9million jobs were lost directly due toAIadoption. In China, 1.2 million jobswere lost in logistics and basicmanufacturing. In India,650,000 IT service jobs were lost and soon in many countries. And all of theseadd up to around five million jobs inall. Now let's look at the worstaffected sectors. First is customerservice and call centers. They were thefirst in the line of fire and the reasonis automation using AI powered chat botsand virtual assistants. Globally around1.2 million jobs were lost in thissector thanks toAI. Two IT services and tech support.Again, AI now handles basictroubleshooting, software testing, andback-end tasks. So, estimated jobs lostare around850,000. Three, warehousing andlogistics. AIdriven robots work infactories, sorting, packing, andinventory management is automated. So,globally, 1.1 million jobs have beencut. Four administrative and clericaljobs, AI, AI tools are now doing theheavy lifting here. They're handling,data entry, invoice processing, andreporting. So, you no longer need humansfor this kind of stuff. Around 750,000jobs were lost in the sector. Five,banking and financial services. AI isreplacinganalysts, compliance officers, and backoffice staff.Around 400,000 jobs have beencut. Six, retail and e-commerce. AIhelps in inventory management,cashierless stores and custom customeranalytics. So 300,000 jobs, three lakhjobs have been cut in this sector. Andhere's another twist. Women's jobs aremore at risk. This is according to aUnited Nations study. It says 41% ofwomen's jobs are exposed to AI, but formen it's only 28%. Do you know why?Because many female dominated fields areeasier to automate like administrativesupport or customerservice. So it doesn't matter if you'reready or not. Artificial intelligence isreplacing people. Sometimes it's alsobackfiring. For example, at Clara, it isa buy now pay later company. It set outto replace people with AI in 2023, butby 2025, the company CEO had a starkrealization. AI can replace some jobs,but it has its limits. Then there isIBM. In 2023, it was predicted toreplace 8,000 jobs with AI. So far, IBMhas managed only a few hundred. In fact,AI has created newer jobs. So, there issome hope there, but mostly the numberspaint a bleak picture. By 2026, 75million jobs could be displaced by AI.Simultaneously, 133 million jobs may becreated, but they will require entirelydifferent skills. And who gets those newjobs? If history is any guide, it's thepeople who are already ahead, the moreeducated, the moreconnected. Those at the losing end areoften the working class. So I guess thequestion is not whether AI is coming foryour job. The question is whether thepeople building AI care enough to softentheblow. This is not a sometime in thefuture story. It is happening now. Sothe time for polite optimism has passed.The machines are here. The pink slipsare being handed out. We will have toact fast to retrain, to regulate, and tore-imaginework. And if we don't, the future won'tbe artificially intelligent. It willjust be artificially human.[Music]First post now available in ninelanguages on YouTube.English 36ion,French,German,Hindi,Indonesian,Italian,Japanese,Portuguese, Spanish,beautiful. Go to settings, click onaudio track, and select the language ofyour choice. Be the first to know what'shappening around you in your firstlanguage.[Music]First Most[Music]